|| Temporary text file for note taking ||

Chappie prompt
I want to correlate the ranking_points of two opponents in a tennis match to the match outcome (win/lose).
The data is saved in such a way that for each recorded match you have two variables, winner_ranking_points and loser_ranking_points.

Up to this point there are three ways i've thought up to correlate the two: 
- The absolute difference score of the ranks. Substracting the losers ranking points from the winners'. 
    I expect a positive correlation between difference ranking score and win rate. 
    This can be done both absolute, but maybe relative would be wiser.

- Higher rank points vs lower rank points, similar to absolute difference ranking, but instead of using the absolute score difference
    for each match allocate the higher ranking points to a high ranking points group, and low ranking points to a low points groups.
    see if there is a correlation between the two

- Overal score correlation to win rate. Without looking at the interaction between the winner and loser ranking points, throw everything on one pile
    and see how overal ranking correlates to match outcome.


I want to test if there is a significant correlation for each of there predictors and match outcome.
Then I want to get a correlational coefficient (Peason's r) that could be use to make predictions about match outcome, 
    based on a single players ranking, or the ranking of both players combined.


FIRST ANALYSIS - Difference score
The first, and likely most useable predictor to be testing is the player ranking difference (PRD) score.
The PRD score for a matchup is defined as the absolute difference in ranking points.

The analysis will be done using logistic regression.

LOGISTIC REGRESSION
Assumptions
- binary outcome
- independent observations
- Linearity of logit: relationship between 'log odds of outcome' and continuous predictor is linear
    - Box-Tidwell test
    - Spline GAM check
    - Plot logit vs ranking difference

    Violation:
    - log transform
    - polynomial
    - Natural splines
- No perfect Multicollinearity
- No complete (of Quasi) seperation

Independence of observations
Since matches are played in tournaments, there could be some carryover effect (fatigue, confidence, crowd support) from match to match, making match outcomes dependent.
This is not really a huge problem for early games, so I could subset the data, to get pretty much independent data. 
Though this would significantly decrease the size of my dataset. 
Another option is adding additional variables, like one for tournament round, adjusting the outcome probability. Test significance of variables using Wald's test

Linearity of logit
No clue what this is honestly

Collinearity
Independent variables are highly correlated. Cannot be, matchups are supposed to be random. Apart from the fact that it is tournament data,
meaning that players rankings are automatically higher.
So there is an assumption of random matchup, this should be checked for the tournaments. How is matchup done?
For example maybe there are qualifiers, and players ranking high in the qualifiers are put against low ranking qualifing players.

No complete seperation
This occurs when one predictor variable perfectly predicts the outcome. So for example a difference score of over 1000

Questions:
How deep do I have to go into the assumptions:
    - tourney influence (independence)
    - player matchups (collinearity)



Start with simple model

handige link, logistic regression uitvoering -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYcXgN9HaTM 
Assume that all assumptions are met.
Simple logistic model for predicting match outcome.